# Reflection

*Reflection* is the ability of a program to inspect, and possibly even modify itself.

Until 2.10, Scala has not had any reflection capabilities of its own.
Instead, one could use part of the Java reflection API, namely that dealing with providing the ability to dynamically inspect classes and objects and access their members. 

In Scala 2.10, a new reflection library was introduced not only to address the shortcomings of Java’s runtime reflection on Scala-specific and generic types, but to also add a more powerful toolkit of general reflective capabilities to Scala.
Along with full-featured runtime reflection for Scala types and generics, Scala 2.10 also ships with compile-time reflection capabilities, in the form of macros, as well as the ability to *reify* Scala expressions into abstract syntax trees.

## Runtime Reflection

What is runtime reflection?
Given a type or instance of some object at runtime, reflection is the ability to:
* inspect the type of that object, including generic types,
* to instantiate new objects,
* or to access or invoke members of that object.

As with other JVM languages, Scala’s types are erased at compile time.
This means that if you were to inspect the runtime type of some instance, that you might not have access to all type information that the Scala compiler has available at compile time.

`TypeTag`s can be thought of as objects which carry along all type information available at compile time, to runtime.
Though, it’s important to note that `TypeTag`s are always generated by the compiler.
This generation is triggered whenever an implicit parameter or context bound requiring a `TypeTag` is used.
This means that, typically, one can only obtain a `TypeTag` using implicit parameters or context bounds.

### Instantiating a type at runtime

Types obtained through reflection can be instantiated by invoking their constructor using an appropriate “invoker” mirror.

## Environment

### Universes

### Mirrors

`Mirror`s are a central part of Scala Reflection.
All information provided by reflection is made accessible through these so-called mirrors.
Depending on the type of information to be obtained, or the reflective action to be taken, different flavors of mirrors must be used.
